## GitHub: Your First Step to Being Industry Ready

The Indian education system has been subject to a lot of criticism over the past decades, especially the discipline of engineering, and for good reason. The IT boom of the 90s in India, established Computer Science as the sure-shot course to a well-paying job, in the minds of Indian parents. Maybe up until a few years ago, this was the case. But not anymore, as is painfully evident from the number of computer students who report unemployment and unsatisfactory employment.

Yes, the education system is flawed. It needs to undergo a revolutionary upheaval to ensure that the engineers it churns out are industry ready. Many of our developers working within the existing tech ecosystem in the country are notorious for being mediocre on an average. Foreign counterparts who collaborate with them often claim them to be amateurish and reluctant to try new paths. This situation is not a reflection of the Indian developers’ capabilities, but that of the failure of the system, which encourages a fixed mindset. This issue has been discussed in detail in my previous article [Is India a space of incompetent software developers?](https://medium.com/@deepusnath/is-india-a-space-of-incompetent-software-developers-1a3ec048df1f).

Attempts to sort these issues have been underway for a while now. But are they good enough?

Educational institutions should stop focusing just on preparing students to get great scores in their examinations, but also ensure that their education provides them with a simulation of the real world that is waiting, where they will be expected to adapt to new challenges every day.

However, simply dumping theories of technologies on these students without getting their basement ready will do more harm than good. Instead, make them primarily well versed in collaborative learning and development, and here’s one of the simplest yet most effective first steps in that right direction- start with GitHub.

Learning the basics of how to operate GitHub, the code collaboration platform, will enable the students and others to work together on projects from any part of the globe. This will in turn enable them to understand how a collaborative development environment, which is the essence of Open Source, works.

A knowledge of how to code or use the command line are not mandatory to start with GitHub. All that is required are a [GitHub.com account](http://github.com/) and of course, internet access.

[_Here’s a great place for even non-developers to get familiarized with GitHub._](https://guides.github.com/activities/hello-world/)

Start with simple projects. Hosting and maintaining resumes on GitHub is a great start. Another option is to create a repository of model question papers relevant to upcoming examinations, which can be shared among classmates, who can also contribute questions and answers to the same. Replacing the conventional method of taking photocopies or hand-written notes, creating such repositories will be both a means to an end and a great way to get acquainted with the GitHub platform and learn the basics of collaborative contribution.

However, it is integral that the respective educators are also familiar with the platform and open to the idea. Teachers can share notes via GitHub and make GitHub the medium for academic projects. Once the students get well-versed with GitHub, they are already enabled to work with the best resources in the industry.

This is when the knowledge on updated technologies gained from sessions and workshops can be actually put to use. Even when the current projects that are being handled at work, or at college, do not contain the scope for application of these updated technologies, looking for related projects on GitHub will definitely open up such opportunities.

Such active involvement with open-source projects will lead to a very diverse scope of development, and provide opportunities to apply, practice and eventually contribute. A person is the average of the five people he or she associates with the most. Getting connected with developers of higher industry standards, and surviving their code review processes will enable one to improve their coding capabilities multifold. They will become familiar in higher quality code, which they can then share with other resources around them, and build up to their capabilities in turn.

At this point, their bar is raised- they are collaborating with world-class coders and enabling others around them.

Now if the promise of improved coding quality is not compelling enough for students and developers to get their hands dirty with GitHub, there’s more.

All top companies looking to hire developers have caught up to how indicative the GitHub profile of a developer is of their coding capabilities and attitude towards learning new things. An all-green GitHub gravitas signals the user’s worth from an employer/hiring point of view, and this is a habit that should be encouraged.

What is especially smart about this GitHub gravatar is that it helps keep track of every single contributions that are made. Your inputs are recorded and visible. That lit-up, green GitHub gravitas will only happen over a period of excellence. It’s not something you can build overnight- it is a result of persistent and consistent contribution.

To build this culture of growth mindset, here’s how companies can help.

1. Replace or supplement resumes with GitHub profiles. This will be a better indication of the candidate’s actual worth.
2. Encourage open source contribution and not just open source consumption. Make sure that at least the modifications made to codes sourced from GitHub are contributed back.
3. Make use of discovery platforms like [sourcing.io](https://sourcing.io/) where one will find indexed and essential information on developers and their activity on open source platforms like GitHub and Stack Overflow. Companies will no longer have to depend on traditional and redundant job sites, which hardly provide relevant information, to recruit their developers.

Keep in mind that just the mere act of attempting to decode the high-quality codes on GitHub will in itself be a great learning experience- the kind that will elude you forever if you are stuck with amateur developers who only do the bare minimum.

So to all wannabe-developers and professional developers who are looking to improve themselves and separate themselves from the herd- start with your GitHub TODAY!
